    Right. Remember the story I told you in the first week, Storage system, file system and database system?
    So. So today, let's build the foundations for foundation for database system.
    But I started talking about the storage system, and eventually data will go there.
    Right, right, right. Storage. Star system.
    Data management. He went to the data store in the storage. We need to understand our storage systems.
    A key a key concept coming out of a storage system is the control of block block B, arrow, c k, So to stress storage systems are Brock devices.
    Okay. I can give you I can give you some detail right away.
    You can log into EC2. Hey, you might want to follow along.
    So. Looking to see to down the way.
    I can give you some some examples, some example on blog on our blog I that.
    So like I said, slow, slow, slow, slow, slow. Something here. Now, if I sat down here, right, and they'd have a database that's running on top of it.
    So if our system looking down here, looking at a star system, is looking at a bunch of blogs,
    not individual bias, can I give you the picture by looking at a block?
    Anyone? Any way I happen to know the block size. Typical block size for killer by walking about how typical.
    So whenever you lead, you're leading for killer by know reading individual by.
    Even though you only need to buy by your reading type, you need to have block your writing, writing and higher broadband for all devices.
    And some give you, some give you to file. I can't. Let's see if I can give you an example.
    Why don't. Why don't I combine the two lectures together? That's why we're talking about a star system for our system today.
    And I think these two are so inter, so, so connected by.
    So like I said, file system looking down, looking at a bunch of block.
    Now, if you saw this file, write this file.
    Okay. Okay. I can do the stat that the file name.
    Okay. So, hello.
    The test is a file in our file system. People agree it's a file in the file system.
    Right. So in the file system, in the stack, man, what does that command do?
    That program. A step program static means.
    What does that mean? Can you tell?
    Can tell if on the phone. A manual. What?
    That's what that's said. Sad. Steady me status?
    Yeah. Basically printing powder.
    Okay, maybe quartering here. So if I do the city.
    Hello? That. That's what I'm looking at. I'm looking at data on metadata.
    When I do the a camera, I'm looking at data.
    Right. And this particular file has how many lines of test?
    Three for as long as one. Hello.
    Well, we're looking at a contact. We're looking at a contact of while we're looking at data.
    And someone give me the metadata. What it will be the metadata exemple was all metadata about this file.
    Size of. Wow. Okay. What? I can't.
    What can you tell me? The size of a file for a six?
    What is what? Well, we'll be we'll be the manager won't be the unit here.
    What is it? Killer buys alibis for it takes one buys.
    This file has how many buys? 46 were buys.
    So there will be the size of what? I'll just file.
    Yeah. So file size is metadata and data. What is it?
    What would you say we have to do to define metadata?
    So what is the metadata data? Okay, so.
    So information about the data. Right.
    So this is a file size. This metadata is now data here with the content of file.
    Any other example of metadata? One more example a day and we need a more Well, we'll come back to this to this,
    to this pre now so I know you're not I know any more without looking at it.
    It's just someone give you the file. Why give me, give me two examples of metadata.
    One you just told me is file size. I will be the author who create a file.
    Right? Yeah, that would be fine. Maybe you want a file name, right?
    File name is metadata data. Melody.
    It sounds good. Yeah, I think that's, um.
    We will.
    We we will make a big deal out of the out of all of the difference between metadata and the data, as we will see in particular when we get to address.
    Okay. Remember last time we sent it out, right as it was, has three servers running.
    Everyone remembers three servers running. When you do two apps, what are three servers running?
    They know. They don't know. And secondly, they know anyone.
    So which knows all data, all about motivation, of which no source data, which server stores data.
    They don't know why They don't know which.
    No stores metadata. Yeah, they know.
    And they know all that data. Secondary Nano actually just stored some kind of log at OGE.
    Log. How many people know something called law allergy like web server law where similar to that.
    So periodically the logs kept the logs.
    Cab in a name? No. I logged a copy over to secondary channel.
    So you have additional copy to protect in case something law or something something bad happen to Nino.
    So you allow you to recover from secondary. They know by law.
    Okay. We can talk more. So now let me go back to the original question I'm having.
    Can someone tell me for on the play now, what could you tell me to I or what does I mean?
    I Obra I Obra I owe being What does I owe me input or input means rela o means what I put means what writing leading for on story device and writing.
    Okay. And I hope that 40 and 86.
    What numbers that. For.
    Killer whale Megabyte. This is a killer.
    I agree. How many people agree this before Killer by? Yeah, I know.
    If you hesitate to raise hand. Owen probably miss the first week was I week we talk about one kilobyte.
    How many buys? How how many buys are there in one kilobyte?
    Thousand. 24. 44. 24.
    24. Yeah. Which is to. To that. Which power.
    Yeah. So this is how many kilobyte for what times.
    What what times. Yeah.
    For the United States is. Yeah. We can check what happens.
    Power 2449 six.
    So I guess that that wasn't my point. So this particular file occupy how many blocks already you actually not occupy, but.
    Well, our system system already has already allocated how many blocks for this particular file.
    Can you tell what I'm highlighting? Can you see what I'm highlighting?
    A Bronx. Okay. Each park has how many buys?
    What is a size eligible for kilobyte.
    So our system is what has been very generous.
    Y you want for the small file? The file as more s 46.
    Why killer by all buys by the already allocated 32.
    What? The 30 to 32. What it buys our killer by killer by the space.
    Okay. Yeah. How many people get a point again?
    My point is the key concept of block. Did I just convince you assets In looking down the solar system, You're looking at a bunch of Broadway.
    Did I convince you? Yeah. And this progress of our system actually are to a system here to allocate a block's blocksize as a fork.
    All right. And this blocksize will I? And oh, when it will reach.
    I mean, it's impolite when early and when they write, you are writing how much data and how much data.
    I owe Brock. I owe Brock. So when you're reading Cobra, which is how much data.
    Okay. Yeah, I think I need you to know. So get him back to the storage system we're looking at.
    We have some dishes. We're going to have some discussion here. But again, keep in mind that we're not talking about star systems per se.
    Well, we need to understand the system. But eventually, the discussion and discussions here.
    With your help, I hope that they're going to have have us understand the US by how I understand the concept of blogging.
    F.D.A. I think that's going now.
    Okay. So let's start with the discussion. If you look at your letter and the chances, the chance is that you are going to have,
    as I said, the SSD, how many people have SSD know that you have SSD in a letter?
    Yeah, but what is the SSD? So yeah, if you power off your laptop, what happened to the data in SSD?
    Are they still there? Yeah. So persistent storage, right?
    Yeah. On the other hand, if you pull it off and you forgot to save the content of your Microsoft Word.
    What happened to the content you forgot to say is going to disappear.
    So the content is the main memory. Okay. When you when you were a programmer.
    Okay, let's say you're working on your homework one, homework one and you're done.
    You're working on homework. And you go, you're using Microsoft Observer.
    So your home one solution is called something like, I don't know, that's a1a humble one dot deal.
    What is it? Docs. Yeah. Okay. And do you put it there?
    Then you double click on the file as we want Docs which program which software are going to star?
    Michael. All one word, right? Yeah. They're probably gonna leave your file into the main memory.
    Can I. Can I have you pick of that picture of your do your homework one dog used to be used to.
    Well is sitting on your SSD, Right.
    C LSD when you use when you actually adenine a file is led into the memory by the software.
    Okay. I think that's what's going on so that you can work on your protocol, your homework.
    Right. Then once you are done, you're going to save.
    Okay. Now you the tertiary though so let's think about it.
    SSD versus me Memory.
    Which one's faster? My memory.
    Yeah. Otherwise, why don't you just biologically work work on the data on the SSD?
    You guys have become there your, your works, your staging area.
    I know is that your data need to be read into,
    into the main memory so my memories are faster than what so that the second
    area that your primary OC anyone still have hard disk still using hard disk
    but that's probably not you know which one is faster SSD or hard disk SSD people are still using hard hard disk drive for maybe for archival purposes.
    I have a steal. Right.
    Which one's more expensive and the same size, same storage size, capacity SSD, or how disk, how they scale.
    I think one terabyte SSD. How much is one Taliban SSD? Anyone?
    And any idea one terabyte SSD, 75 boxes and 100 and I think the whole hat is quite probably one cheaper.
    Right. So do you 40 something like that. So I think going to.
    So my memory SSD in a heartbeat because I think that's also something called cash.
    Cash. What is a cash. What is cash?
    CPU cash in particular. So eventually he was getting data on where one category I mean, most of on cash and cash and cash was just a memory.
    Which one's faster cash. Yeah. And which was more expensive.
    Same, same, but the same capacity. Cash.
    You see the same idea.
    So in terms of access to access time is that is the person that is there quantify the speed of speed of getting speed of data transfer.
    Right. So so a time taken before I should say time taken before the device is ready to transfer the data access time.
    Ready. Ready? Not. Not. Not. Not. You in charge for extra transport.
    So you look at SSD. Let's get a scaled way.
    25. So if someone tell you, think about this.
    Give someone to have someone give you a device storage device.
    And. And telling you that access high is 50 nanoseconds, which device?
    Most likely it is that which which kind of device may memory.
    Okay now what what does nanosecond me one the how many nanoseconds are there in one second.
    One over one 1 billion hour.
    Yeah. Yeah. So ten to it always power niya.
    So you got to have a nanosecond and a thousand Attosecond is how much is how is what.
    Second is microsecond.
    A thousand microseconds is one millisecond.
    Yeah. Okay, maybe another question. Now the other person coming out to you and say I have a device and access time is 30 microsecond.
    30 microsecond. Which device are most likely is going to be SSD.
    So and the last person say, Oh no, I have yet another device.
    Right. And access time is 10 milliseconds.
    Which one? 10 milliseconds. Hard disk drive people see that time millisecond is a ten millisecond right millisecond.
    So we we getting idea nanosecond. You're talking about my memory or cache.
    Am I right? Microsecond You're talking about what device.
    Microsecond. Most likely to be one Microsoft SSD.
    Right. Maybe start with it's nanoseconds here and nanosecond here.
    Then microseconds thousand thousand. We use three lots, we orders and then go back to do that.
    Right. Narrow Michael and a one millisecond millisecond.
    You have one hard this is why microsecond.
    I Now nanoseconds is going to be one. Memory.
    Question I was wondering. Okay.
    I think that's that's going up. We know the IUD.
    Do we know the IUD? What's the IUD? I probably tell you to tell you.
    Didn't I tell you when we talk about. So I see these gray are created.
    Meaning that. Yeah. As I was to started revise allow you to create something new.
    I put something there. I mean, get something out.
    You. Or use a kind of important update or why?
    Okay, we're going to make a big deal out of this in the case of an SSD.
    When you get back to brand SSD, I mean brand new SSD.
    Okay. Then. But I knew that there's no data.
    I mean, depending on how you define a data base, you mean there's no data brand, right?
    No data. Need to be careful with that.
    But assuming that no data, then you're going to lie data to date sachdeva later, you change your mind.
    You're going to change the data that's called lie or lie. Our life as a city doesn't like to be overlooked.
    For some reason, I think that's the one of the things we want to understand.
    So as a city has limited something called p e cycle p e p slightly.
    Anyway, I happen to know p e cycle p slash e p means what program relies writing?
    E means what? Anyways.
    Yeah. You know, before you all were white, you actually erased the entire block.
    We will see. Okay, so. So it's a motivation. So I. More discussion on the over why.
    And two terms. We like it understand.
    One is the bandwidth, the airlines latency. Now, latency is the time you spend in doctor's waiting law.
    You see the doctor, I see you've got to see your doctor.
    You're waiting in a in a large in in a waiting room at that lounge.
    Right. Yeah. So they're sitting in the couch.
    You spend like a 10 minutes waiting there. That's your latency data latency.
    You're waiting. Nothing for nothing.
    Not no real thing happen, right? A doctor having the doctor have.
    Doctor has not. Has nothing. Has not seen you yet.
    Okay. There you are. That some nurse, right, Joe?
    I use your term. They then you go to to some some room.
    I like that operation room.
    And Doctor, we're you. I mean, this is awesome.
    Okay, so I guess what I'm trying to say is, what I want to trying to say is two things.
    Devices need to get ready before you can re and why people agree.
    That's the time. That. Which time? What time is it?
    Latency. Latency was devised very fully and rely on latency.
    Include that you're looking for the data you're trying to overlay. People agree if you all you try to read right you know.
    Here's what I'm reading. The data is all the data, but the device somehow needed in the case of this disk device.
    But this hard disk is why that need to I had a disk had need to move to that area.
    People see what's going on. Yeah, there's still old divides, but it still allows the old device to allow you to think about it.
    So this cat needs this cat white hat.
    How many hundred people use Because that way of equal before because separate?
    Yeah, you know what I'm talking about. Yeah, essentially. But that is that the I had a need to move to to that earlier in the case I had
    they store that take a time today to understand what's going on That's a latency.
    The data I'm leading is over there so it'll take y millisecond for me to, to go from the beginning position of the hair to they they start transmit.
    Let's start to read how far I can read is governed by what is determined by what.
    Families. Families? That makes sense. Well.
    Anyone not having Internet service at home?
    No one has some kind of Internet service.
    Do you know the bandwidth of your Internet service? Do you know the bandwidth of the Internet service?
    What, what's what, what, what service did you. Did you purchase? Yeah.
    Give me a give us an idea. You have a 5050 megabyte, megabyte or megabits?
    Probably more likely to be paid. So let's say 100 megabits per second.
    Yeah, that's the bandwidth. That's how you can transmit that data through the wide road, for example.
    Same thing here. Okay. But instead of bits, we are going to say buys.
    That makes sense. Yeah. But I think that my my, I think my spectrum I'm using spectrum and I think that's is the Time Warner spectrum.
    But anyway, so I have a 200 megabits per second.
    It's not by the marketing. It's not I don't think it's five megabit.
    How many buys? How many basing by six or eight.
    So 200 megabyte really is 200 divided by one a.
    If you like. It's nice. Yeah. So good.
    Can I. Can I have. Can I give you that 2/10?
    Why is the bandwidth. The other one is what? Latency.
    Okay. We're going to have more detail on that.
    Fast forward to the holiday season.
    Why again, when we're not trying to understand how do I per say, we're not judged?
    I don't want we don't want to take it upon us. Now we component it, but we want to do some kind of performance modeling,
    I guess some idea about reading and writing and something called sequential re and randomly.
    I think probably there's more useful that way.
    If you think about that way so hard is why rotate by has if you look at a component has number or plateaus prior to how many practice that you have.
    Well, how about this one? How many predators? Three pairs.
    You can tell right away. We've had. Now, can I tell you that each predator has two recording services?
    Can I. What? We're at a tool of cutting services.
    If you look at this spread of. How come you have to do cutting services?
    Why is right here on the top. The islands. Where? At bottom.
    Yeah. Right underneath. Yeah. To the goddesses.
    Which means Aqui Prado has. How many has.
    Oh, can I. Can I take each Prada? How many Prada do I have?
    Three. No damage. Zooming.
    Zooming here. So if you look at their particular disk, you just told me there are three predators.
    Can I tell you that? So if you look into the hacked assembly desk somewhere, you're going to look at something like that.
    Okay. So if you have a I don't know, sir, do I have a piece of paper somewhere?
    Like, think about this is a disk at this platter. Okay. Then you're going to have this Cadillac there.
    That makes sense. So how many has the. You have one on the top of the island or one bottom?
    Right. So you can leave on the tall lee or round at all.
    You can also read and write four on the bottom.
    So with that said, could you now tell me how many? How many How many has six has.
    Yeah. I won't get in this six has. Fine.
    I think the screen now and the disk had a slightly smaller like a wiper that the ring ring wiper.
    On your on your, on your car. I look out the window.
    Your people see what I'm talking about. Yeah. It's just like that. Like, like that predator rotate, rotating, rotated by spindle.
    Okay, let's take. And those are.
    This is a magnetic magnetic devices. So I could zooming a little bit somewhere else, call it liquid.
    Looks something like this, Right? So, for example, up arrow means one dial will be one zero.
    So this will be one zero and 111.
    And this one we want zero. So if you just need a sensor to sensing that election law, the field.
    Right. That makes sense. But if you're writing, could it be possible you're going to.
    Could it be possible you're going to change the direction? Could it be possible?
    Change in changing direction means one. Yeah.
    Yeah. 24 1120. All zero back two one, two.
    One way. Makes sense. Basically, Louis and the right leaning right.
    Going to. And this is a location.
    Location used to be a typical, let's say, let's say a particular hockey school twice locating a slot not located at 10,000 R.P.M.
    That's on a standard tank here. What does 10,000 RPM? What did I hear?
    Me? Notations per minute.
    Yeah. Now, if. If that's why it's rotating at a particular speed.
    10,000 rpm. Could you tell me that? How long does it take for one complete rotation?
    One for location. How long does it take? Six.
    Yes, that's right. Yes, that's right. But you can pretend you don't see that.
    Why is six a millisecond? Because one minute means one minute.
    How many? How many minutes I can. 60 millisecond MRI and you can do 10,000 location.
    So every rotation take how long? 60 minutes, you know, right away.
    Hard disk drive is leaving the living leaving or milliseconds by milliseconds.
    Excess time millisecond. Not our first.
    Labor market here. So what's going on is each Prada is either how many Prada can you can tell me how many proud of this?
    Three. How many? How many has six?
    We already know that. Now, can I tell you that each proud to that that each recording service is further divided into.
    You see the yellow tax, the yellow, the yellow circle here, those one particular check.
    Now we can we can actually see how many. I don't know. Maybe one, two, three, four, five, six tax.
    Can I fix check? So every service has a six.
    Tax means fine.
    So I think that we serve as a six check. We check is followed divided into something called what sectors?
    Sector. But the but but but careful with that one sector this is one particular sector is here the sector
    sector this it doesn't mean this this this burst your birthday cake you slice of birthday cake.
    Sector no is this a segment of check people getting what I'm trying to say?
    Yes. It's like in a. Just just just what what I highlighting here what I'm what I'm trying to to to point you
    now particular is one sector and sector size in modern July is typically one for why.
    Wah wah wah pies. All for something for kilobyte.
    Okay. But whenever you're reading or writing, you must read at least one sector.
    But sometimes it's like assuming that every block is one sector, so the block size will be one.
    For Calabar. But sometimes when you configure the device, you can say, I want to have a larger block size and we broadcast to sector four sector.
    If it's a two sector down block size, what we want is for a killer buyer.
    I mean, no, assure me I would practice one sector.
    The only case sector is a small unit with.
    Small units of that. That's right.
    I think is. So what I guess what I'm trying to say is when we're reading and writing, you're leading an entire sect like that, that you're not.
    Right. You know, leading individual buys, but the entire sector.
    Okay, So I think there's anything else I want to say. Okay.
    So something close to this from Wikipedia. So d annotate the files at annotate.
    Why doesn't the device need some way to identify a particular sector?
    Right. People. See, you want to say. There are so many sector here.
    You need to some kind of addressing that, some kind of address.
    Just like I don't know how many houses here, but every sector is a house.
    Every house has an address. Every Saturday, Zulum.
    Every room has some kind of address. People agree. What is.
    What is that? What is the name with this long as well as G and what numbers?
    Yeah. So something like this? Not now. Now, one particular particular adjusting scheme is called c HS.
    C means what? Cylinder. Yes.
    And let's understand what's going on here. So this this dark one is trying to say the blue think he like the blue think he is is one cylinder.
    Okay. I should say, though.
    I should say the checks. All the check in. All the check here.
    Okay. Let's see how hot, hot, hot, hot.
    I say this. But can I say cylinder is a three dimensional concept?
    Can I. A cylinder? Okay. Now, can someone somehow tell me.
    In this particular devise a cylinder hack. A cylinder consists of how many checks?
    How many checks? One cylinder.
    Okay. Anybody fancy Linda? In this case? A cylinder is A cylinder consists of a chair.
    Consists. Consists of a concentric attack. What is what does a concentric me concern?
    What is it? What does it determine? Concentric.
    I don't know how many track the cylinder has, but all those checks are located on a same distance.
    Locate at the same distance from where? On the center.
    Yeah. Okay. With that, could you tell me that one cylinder has how many check in safety checks?
    Yeah. So that we can. We can see that yellow.
    Yellow check underneath has another one, Another yellow, another one underneath.
    Can I. And I said the same thing here.
    One cylinder. Okay. So I guess what I'm saying is that a seat in this seat address.
    Why? There are three components. First, I want to see what I see.
    Me what I see me cylinder.
    If someone tell you it, the question how many cylinder does this device have?
    Has. How many cylinder does it have?
    One, two, three, four, five, six.
    People see what I'm saying? Cylinder So some attribute a cylinder, you know, you narrow down now you narrow down to how many checks.
    We can even have a in number. Right. So this is zero one, two, three, four cylinder number four.
    Can I. So this isn't the number four.
    If someone tell you now that your check is located, a cylinder number for you narrowed down to search your search key.
    One of how many checks? Six checks.
    Okay, then some photo. Tell you the head number this device has.
    How many have? Six Has. Can I say zero to where?
    Five. Okay, so zero be here. One will be under that one to that.
    And this will be to. What number is that?
    What is what is that? What is a number that have two, three and a four?
    One, two, one, five. Okay. Now see is what he would say.
    Zero, one, two, three, four. C is for OC.
    Question C is for H is.
    To which check are we looking at? Do we know which attacker we're looking at with the edge?
    Do we know? Yeah, we know. Right. So maybe you were looking at this.
    People agree. Then the last thing you think you need to know is what they ask.
    What does ask me? Sector.
    Okay. See a chart? Sanskrit. In a case of stress.
    And you started it. Let's say your. You have to date on those.
    Y y is here some little bit over there.
    They both machine. Both machine using hard basically to destroy right there in addition to CO2.
    So you probably need to say which machine which they don't know by be identified by IP address people people people see what I'm saying.
    Me we've got to hopefully that that give you some picture here.
    Hi. Little bit more be more examples is device.
    Yeah. A question for the question what's it. So what's the difference The track of the cell nerves or both the.
    Yeah, I guess the question is what would be the difference? Well, the how checks relate to cylinder cylinder.
    Okay. So in this case, again, if you think about cylinder as three dimensional concept.
    Yeah. So check is to concept, right?
    Yeah. So. So in particular this, this blue cylinder, the blue cylinder, you see that both cylinder Right.
    Consists of how many checks. One year.
    That year consists of all the yellow text. So we see three.
    We can see you three right underneath the yellow.
    The yellow one, right? Yeah. So I think this cylinder consists of a number checks.
    Any other questions? Yes.
    I think I think the point here is that somehow that the wires need to locate some kind of some way to locate a particular
    storage area by smart as a storage area is sector circular backed by a need to you need to be able to say number one,
    number two, number three, like some kind of address.
    Okay, So now in this case, this predator has how many tracks?
    One track. This track has how many sectors to our sectors.
    Right. Now let's look at a location or latency somehow a situation like this.
    So you're trying to lead. Let's see. Okay, I should tell you.
    So that device rotating in one direction, this particular device rotating what direction?
    Counter or clockwise? Counterclockwise.
    People. People with me can't go to work clockwise.
    Okay, well, that's that takes care that assuming a desk had a supply at the beginning or sector say so we need to know the sector.
    So sector zero is from the sea.
    Rotating this way while rotating this way. So there's fixed the skiing here.
    So Sector zero is. How about this?
    Six. Okay. Sector zero is from here to right for sector one.
    That makes sense. And sector wise to the starting sector.
    One staff, one here to lobby for what? Secretary.
    Where does that desk head is lie at the beginning of which is ACTOR six.
    If you zoom into a device now, a tiny area between sectors that are not record energy, no known recordings.
    Nonetheless, that gap is not is non recording cannot be magnetized.
    Okay. So. They have that using that to know to stop just the start of a particular sector or something like that.
    I guess a question here, we can understand the rotation or latency, so why would it be rotational latency?
    Question Because I'm gonna give you the scenario that, that there will be some waiting time before you can leave particular sector.
    Give me a sector example sector where you need to wait. You need a waiting the waiting room.
    But if we are leading sector Y, how long, how long approximately how long would you would need to wait it tell me to.
    Yeah. Almost for location is almost.
    Almost, almost. So essentially you need to. We are leading sector y and you need a way and your sector for a lot to underwrite under what they had.
    That makes sense. Yeah. So. But that.
    Can I tell you, sacrifice. And although actually worst case could you could you make it make its decision your worst.
    To Leszek the why while disco had always on rely on the lie at the beginning of this sector, six may require you to do almost four rotation almost.
    Can you make it even worse on that or the almost you want poultry even more closer to full rotation.
    I can. I can I can. I can hear you. Assuming we are leading had we are leading sector six.
    Okay. But the had it just one one bit paths one.
    Sector could happen, but they just won't be today.
    And you need to restart. You can live on the what?
    The beginning. How many people had the picture, right?
    Yeah. So in that case, put a match for location.
    All right. So worst case, one for location. How many people can we use?
    One for a location. Worst case can be the best case scenario.
    Give me the sector that you are leading that you don't have.
    That would be the best case. That's a six way.
    Six. It's right there.
    Right. So the latency will be what will be latency? Zero.
    Best case zero. Worst case. Poor location, average.
    Only we don't know which one reading. Yeah. We might be leading sectors with this kind of system when maybe leading an unknown sector say,
    well, a and take a lot of cases and develop a number of cases.
    So I will be the average. Give me that in case you have you have to know to be half.
    Okay. So getting back to the device, if the device allowed you to add this particular question.
    Yeah, that's a good question. The question is why? Why? Why? Just one way location.
    Yeah. Any take any any thoughts?
    People see the question, why are the devices rotating on any one direction?
    Celebrity. More uniform.
    Any. Any. As any other force.
    We just do things that would drive operates in that direction.
    Okay. Okay. So that was happening in both that direction.
    So in this case. Well, let's say.
    So this device is rotating. What dialog you have with counterclockwise.
    Right. Let's say you also want to rotate in clockwise.
    Yeah. What would that happen? How would that. How would you make that happen?
    You need to slow down to stop and then pick out a speed.
    Why would that be a bad idea? Inefficient and inefficient y y to be inefficient or increase latency.
    And it could also be dangerous to do. Could it be also dangerous to do?
    We don't know. Right. So. So essentially, think about a highway. How many people are dying on I-10?
    I'd say Interstate ten here. Did you ever going back were.
    I wanted to drive backward. And you need to slow down. You know, turn it back.
    Why does it take time? You would take time and pick up speed.
    And because you're driving very high speed. It's pretty.
    Pretty high speed here. That makes sense. I think probably that's intuition.
    Yeah. So one direction. Okay.
    So, Eric, do we do we have agreement the original or so for this device particular device, 10,000 rpm device.
    Could you tell me to switch location or latency. Assuming that we do not know which sector we are looking for and do not know where the head is,
    we milliseconds people agree with on whether that that met.
    Okay. Now the other time latency is something called seek.
    Okay. Seek latency you can seek. Could you tell me how many tractors they have?
    Does this particular Prada have? How many?
    How many? Three. Okay. Now, if a disc had is in innermost track, could you tell me the best case scenario?
    And the worst case scenario in terms of seek?
    Seek is seeking what is looking for no sector in this case fair, but in a rotational speed, the latency is actually looking what we are.
    We were actually looking for what sectors. But now we are seeking what.
    Check. Okay. Now gimme, gimme, gimme.
    But the best case scenario. Give me the sector number.
    You are leading the. So do you want.
    All the sector, you know, enormous tech. Do you need to see do you need to do you need to look for the right check?
    Do you need a chair? Would have had to look for a large hat? No.
    Why not? You're already here, right? For Seagate is one.
    Latency is well, zero. Worst case scenario.
    All the secretary in which WeChat. Out of emotion.
    You need to move to sector.
    Sorry to check. Going from here to there.
    And the two there. You agree? All right. Now.
    Now, think about a situation at the desk that is in a metal check.
    Best case scenario. Quickly. Zero.
    Worst case. Worst case instead of two, it's going to be one one.
    You see the difference now, depending on the location of the head situation, different people agree.
    You turn out, which is one third of the maximal.
    You can meet at the end, but the one third so that I just give it into intuition.
    So when will maximum sea time occur?
    Last question before we finish this week.
    Could you give me the scenario that that scenario which will incur maximum every time you move the task ahead of one where where.
    Well innermost to our outermost, all of which most people agree.
    Yeah it's uncomfortable you that's maximum a. And you don't know the situation is execution.
    What below average. One third. So maximum.
    Okay. So let me fast forward 2 to 2 over here.
    I don't see that average already. Yeah.
    If it's going to be a maximum speed home, a particular device, a millisecond will be average.
    Bobby The average family is six divided by one by three.
    And I think they're so. Good.
    Questions. Sure, our questions. So to recap, there are two types of latency.
    What are two types of latency that start with a.
    C. C. C. C is looking at for what?
    Check. Then followed by. Followed by one location or latency, which is looking for what sectors?
    That's exactly the way that I need you to know that. In addition to that, there's also something called bandwidth play.
    Remember, I give you two terms one span which the airlines, one latency already tell you that everything about latency.
    Right. And bandwidth that could be, I don't know, one 200 megabytes per second.
    Okay. Now putting everything together, that's how we're ready for this example.
    I think we're ready. Let's see. We can. We can. We can get this done. Okay.
    We don't want to spend too much time on a supply system. So if someone give you a disk and every time this device is, what can you tell?
    So I went one. Millisecond. Could you tell me the outage location those latency?
    10,000. IBM means 3000.
    Three millisecond. Yeah.
    Chance for a chance for that band, which is a 50 meg meg megapixel megabyte by uppercase B, I mean by six and the block sizes for Keller by Y ten.
    Sequential workload means there's ten megabyte.
    I don't know, maybe first guess now we try to do ten megabyte data and because someone tell me to how many blocks,
    how many blocks are there in ten megabyte. How many black?
    Terry Maguire divided by one divided by one four kilobyte roughly.
    What number is that? I think I have some the mass somewhere. Oh, I know.
    I don't know what happened here. So ten megabyte, a divided by four kilobyte is 2.5 times what, 1024 people agree.
    People see that? Why?
    1024. Yeah.
    Yeah. Because that's how many kilobyte you have in one.
    So he's a ten 2.5 time. 1024 Apr 21.
    2100 by. Question.
    Question. By more than that.
    By more than. So we had readings sequentially.
    Sequential means one, the 2500 block, the Miami locator located.
    You want check. Can I see? One, two, three, four.
    It's so cozy there, right next to each other. Can I. Yeah. So.
    Well, right next to each other means I only need potentially one.
    Plus the computer to the first blog.
    I have 25, 2500 block. So somehow, let's say to first broke here on this first block there.
    Then I just continue. I hope that that's that same block on people.
    But basically one next to each other people people with me and until I how how many block to it should I read how many BLOCK 25 100.
    They are wide just adjacent to each other. They are neighbors, close neighbors by next door neighbors.
    So which means I need to do what one seek and potentially one location or latency.
    Then I start trying to meet people. People agree that tends to meet.
    How long does it take for transmission to complete? Is determined by.
    They are determined by what families I think we have.
    We have a complete mess now. Right. Okay. So completion time for this particular work law will be said.
    What is our. Average sticker price three.
    What is three? What will be three? OC price 1002 OC What is the what does it mean?
    I should say ten what per megabyte divided by 150 megabyte right per second by a person.
    Can I add more to the numerator? Is times thousand times thousand?
    What? Second millisecond. Many people see them as they all emit a second now.
    Okay. So ten divided by 50 is what point to easy.
    The point to so that transmission control and community transmission time.
    201 201 milliseconds will be the latency.
    What is latency? Two together a total latency so unpopular.
    Three data, which is power.
    10 milliseconds. Right. So I guess my question here is what is to ensure will grow?
    Which one dominates transmission or latency?
    Transmission. You spend more time on transmitting data compared to what?
    The latency. Which is good or bad.
    Yeah, it's good. Now you can also computer actual boundaries.
    This you can call it. It's a maximum bandwidth. Actual bandwidth is ticketed mounted data transmitting and divided by one.
    The conclusion that this Nanda cannot turn out to be smaller or larger than maximal or smaller Y because of Y.
    Because of latency, limited latency for on the phone the equation you're going to have exactly what.
    If I remove latency, that 210 will become what they know limo latency, 200 the bandwidth.
    It will be 150 megabyte per second.
    Now, because of latency, the number cannot be smaller or same than the maximum, maximum smaller or because of latency.
    People agree. Yeah. But in in a sequential workflow again, which one dominate?
    You spend more time on church meeting or, you know, waiting for church meeting data?
    Yeah, right. Okay. So I think that's that's.
    What about random workflow? Uh, we're doing good right now.
    Workflow is like 2100 once a year. The islands there, we were everywhere.
    You can take a longer or shorter. Longer time to take a longer because way longer.
    Why longer? Why? Why would it take more time?
    It'd be a bonus or you're going to have a more.
    Right? Yeah. In other case, once you get into one location or then you're transmitting data right now where we block, there might be potential.
    See kind of what? Like the first of here I need to see.
    And the potential role rotating rotation or latency down, move on to a different chair.
    They see that there's another seat and rotation or latency.
    People. People see that. Yeah. Okay. So with that said for a is random workflow I think that's the exact number Z 2560 2560.
    Is that a number. A number block. Right. 2560.
    So 25, 60 times seven plus three, we know.
    What is that y price four divided by 50.
    What number is that? Four divided by 15? Someone having the number, What numbers there?
    45 years. What is the transmission time for transmitting?
    How much data? Wah, wah, wah, wah, wah.
    Yeah, four is for kilobyte. I guess a four killer.
    So this is a four. What do I have in the summer? Okay, so this four kilobyte divided by 50 megabyte times thousand.
    What is that? Yeah. So I guess I cancel out, right?
    So the South amendments thousand and a lot, roughly. I mean, this roughly is megabyte so it cancel out.
    Right. People see that. So it's okay.
    So the numbers point okay in random workflow.
    Let's look at this. To summarize here in London workflow, which one dominates?
    Latency or transmission? What is latency here?
    Whatever we brought will be low latency.
    Papua Millisecond So you spend ten millisecond charge to transmit data for how long pausing or what millisecond?
    So which one do you spend more time on? One. A latency.
    Okay people getting is Yeah. Excel bandwidth is very slow is very low as you see.
    I'm done. Unless you have questions. Yeah. So the boxes of ten megabytes were just the, um.
    Before Joe Biden's come from the Bronx.
    Yeah, that's exactly right. So I guess the question is, in this case, where where is where the weather is for Caleb?
    I can't fall in Orlando. It's the size because we are meeting one frog at a time and assuming that each province is one sector.
    What about you? Thank.
    Any other questions? We are done with the strike again.
    A key concept here is block by block reading and writing, banging blocks and and a device like a sequential workflow, right.
    Instead of random walk along. And the concept of a latency.
    And the bandwidth we consider to. Fenway says, how you can transmit data and latencies, how long you wait.
    We're waiting in. The doctor's waiting. Good.
    Let's move on to talk about as a city or maybe the deficit.
    Let's talk ammonia. What is SSD? Solid state drive SSD.
    Now, zooming to the SSD, then you're going to see a number of memory chips.
    There's a note on memory chip. It has some kind of controller, logic controller, device controller, brain of device.
    Maybe here and inside this chip might have some kind of main memory.
    When I say RAM, how many people know what I'm talking about? Ram I am Ram, I Yeah, my memory, basically.
    Yeah. But essentially, essentially, this brain, all you could think of as just some kind of CPU here and the CPU and the data and then
    suddenly said I'm on my main memory storage area but those sorry area ram wallet all.
    Gonna disappear, data is going to disappear. But keep in mind that some some some, some.
    Some may memory here. Some Ram. Ram.
    Okay, so those are the memory chips.
    This way. So this is what's going on. SSD cans contains a number of a fresh memory chip.
    Our chip has a number of dyes, and this is one particular dye.
    Can I make one? Proctor each Dye it.
    I have the number divided into a number praying. Could you tell me how many per hint that I have to pray?
    Each praying has how many blocks? Each praying to pray has How many?
    BLOCK Three in a row. Right. How many words do I have?
    Six rule altogether. How many blocks? 18 block people are with me.
    Each bro has how many pages? Green pages, y how many pages?
    Ten pages is a ten pages. They are ten.
    How many pages? How many? How many? Including proxy aotea.
    Look, look. It looked like a hand to me. How many? How many? Because it is a terrier.
    Too many calories. Calorie. So here's what the diagram is not important.
    I got a run for the web somewhere. I on the phone or internet somewhere way.
    But I think that's this the the the important is to understand the different the concept of blog and the pages.
    Okay.
    The pages SSD like it blogging how this is why you can think of every green page green page green green path is full killer by quarter pages here,
    but a concept block. So when we're reading and writing, you are reading what?
    Pages. Can I. Can I. Can I. Can I have that?
    But when you are. It doesn't have Irwin per say.
    But instead of something called erase, when you try to erase, you're not erasing the individual pages.
    You are invading the entire What? Blog.
    I think that's the key message I want you to have for some reason.
    Let's understand it a bit more. And that's all we need somehow to erase erasing the entire blog.
    The blog has how many pages in this diagram? Temperatures.
    For some reason, you need to erase the entire life.
    It doesn't want you to always individual page. Okay.
    All right. So to understand why that's the case, a little bit on the inside and why into the storage.
    This. This is your SSD. And those are individual cell.
    And we say, oh, that's they stole one bit. So.
    Okay. So the one means either zero or what?
    Wow. Okay. Uh, zooming to cell.
    So can I. Zooming. Zooming to individual cell. You are looking at something like this.
    Something called every cell is is made of four for holding a transistor place for the transistor.
    And how many how many people seem much happier for.
    Yeah. Some of you. Yeah. So the difference between a normal transistor and a floating transistor.
    Can you tell me the difference for those of you all in, you know, the protein folding cases is to had one additional one.
    Additional. Gate is called.
    What? Floating. Running.
    Can I tell you? The floating gaze stores? What does a store.
    Anyone want to guess? All your data.
    But the data is not data in waffle. Waffle. Stores in Lake Charles.
    Why they say electronic device, electronic. When you get back your SSD, bring SSD.
    No electrons in the floating gate for this.
    All the sales can. I know electron electron has positive a negative charge negative.
    So if no electron can we say it is a state represents data one I just just just name just just representation here.
    When you get back to SSD brand no electron in a floating gate that particular sale, all sales represent all sales are in the state.
    All what I want.
    Okay then. Someone writing data.
    Writing data. Well, how does how does the how would writing whole writing occur?
    What does writing data mean for this particular device?
    You you the charge. You want a positive and negative charge applied to control gate.
    Okay, here's what's going on. The electrons are here, right?
    This is flowing here for that. For all you here. Okay.
    And. So. So basically going from 1 to 0 means we need it.
    We need to attack some electrical and store and putting what gate.
    Blockade road. Engage people with me.
    Okay. In order for that to happen. You would like to apply a positive or negative charge to conjugate.
    Positive y positive so that you can attract a negative electron.
    So because for loading a is surrounded by oxide like some kind of isolation, the why would you need to have some kind of insulation?
    Why would you make it the same? So why would you want to have oxide layer insulation?
    Why otherwise the electron trap that might free might feel free to go.
    So people see what's going on. So some kind of oxide layer, insulation layer, but the insulation layer is not entirely breakable.
    Okay. So when you apply too high enough positive charge to which gate what you will say,
    which control gate, the highest very high that hang wall people, not people.
    How many people know the circuit that this circuitry.
    Typically if you that that right that I see working what what it.
    Three all fly away. But. But the what is here we're talking about is very, very high.
    10 to 15. Okay. Why? Because the oxide layer is difficult.
    You know, electron to break through, you need a very high. That makes sense.
    So through the process called quantum content tunneling, I can show you this, like.
    Yeah. So here's what I'm saying. What?
    What I have, what I. What I. What I've been saying so far is the writing process is going on to stay particular to say are going for a
    state or one to state or what zero state of one means election or not in a voting no state of zero means yes.
    So for that to happen, posting very high positive wattage.
    Okay. Pseudo right so that you can check electron from that channel.
    There's a channel to floating through a process called Quantum one Tunneling.
    Okay, I think that's the picture I want you to have. Reading and writing.
    You are reading the entire page again. You're not reading with your cell.
    Or reading? Reading. I haven't thought of it, but basically I started reading by the writing.
    Writing here because of high wattage light. You don't want to apply to individual cell either.
    Okay. People still want to see ancient because high.
    What? Okay. How many people want to get close to the electricity transmission wire?
    That's basically the 10,000 worried. How many people want to get close?
    No. Why not? Getting close is.
    Dangers are the same thing here. So when you apply the worry high to individual cell, if somehow effect, it's going to affect that neighborhood.
    People's privacy. When? What are you going to do? The entire page and happy.
    So writing is writing individual page. What happened to the.
    Now they think about it almost, actually.
    I just want to know. Let's say this gate.
    I even have example here. Right. So.
    Doesn't matter. Let me just say the point here. You can order that.
    Therefore, that doesn't matter. Can I.
    Can I. Can I. Can I. Can I now say that this this this cell still has the electron electrons means 100.
    Could it be possible someone would change back to one?
    Could it be possible? Could it be possible? You're going to change the data, updated it away.
    So going from 0211, shoot, what will happen?
    You list. Hi. What? What? What? What do you want to do? Going.
    Going back. Going, going wrong. 0 to 1 means you're going to do what will happen to the electron.
    You need to We need to make the car with all electronic. So getting the electronic one unfolding gave me this time conjugate.
    You need to have a positive. A negative. Negative.
    Yeah. Negative. You worry that they turn out to be evil, evil, evil.
    Higher negative positive mean positive.
    There's ten I negative probably 20. I don't know. Okay. Because because of that you don't want to even.
    You don't want to you don't you don't want to update individual cell.
    Instead, basically a device is going to wipe out erase the entire one block.
    Okay, So he never actually just changed.
    Josh I guess what I'm saying is it's not that the wise has not changed, not getting rid of zero all the all this.
    So we're going while 0 to 1 by means election need to be gone.
    Okay. And which means a very, very high negative advantage applied to conjugate.
    Because of the danger of the high wattage.
    You actually do that to the order to do all the sailing in the entire block?
    So that process I call what else?
    Okay. So let me give you more detail all the time.
    So now they say there were four sales that you guys only have for sales.
    When you get where you go, you go. Your brand SSD and we sell is instead of one one, meaning electronic.
    No that now some are writing data in that process called program programing through my writing.
    The data is 1001. Can I means anything to change the first L.
    No seconds. They all need to go from 1 to 0.
    What? What about Thursday? Are also going one one, two, one zero.
    Any chance to laugh? No. So the program means program, but always mean going from one for some say Going from one to what?
    That's why this is a call waiting. Writing is for no electron to electron.
    Okay. And the writing is done by. By page. High positive wattage.
    Then someone try to override. Okay. Someone saw. Someone did this now.
    Someone tried to change the data instead of 1001.
    What I'm trying to say here, I guess.
    The. Okay, here's what I'm trying to say.
    Yeah. That I think that you can all ignore. When I hear someone try to modify data 1001 becoming 10111 can I could it be possible to.
    Right. Okay. That means for this peace deal going 1120.
    Am I right? Second base going one now going one way.
    Zero two. What does it. What does it mean? Election two.
    No election. Positive. Negative. We are positive, but we want to stay positive.
    But but what? What, what prior to the conjugate, why are you high negative?
    So for that to happen, he actually loses.
    Okay, so what I'm trying to say is if someone tried to lie, I try to override.
    So I think probably I need to post something like this now.
    So I try to do.
    I try to. It is time. Tied to this.
    The new. And they say new data. New new data. New data like that?
    No, actually, it doesn't do. Right.
    You look at the new data, no change here. And but this first sale going from 1 to 0, people didn't find a second.
    It going back to what one? That means you need to.
    Eloise. But people agree for the first they are still problem, right?
    People with me. And a second or third actually is what they need to always get a lot.
    But issue, it's not dying in darkness. Not dying.
    Eat not down to individual cell, not you and pay it down on the entire block.
    So basically new data is like that. You actually erase it.
    Do erase new erase.
    After erase, you're getting back. What? So erase.
    Tell me the data. New data, is that right?
    So let me put here a new data there. You actually do it, Eloise.
    Eloise 10012. What?
    One, one, one, one. That's Eloise. People remember.
    So they erase the entire block and they say this has brought the anger down, programed, programed to.
    100111. And this is a Caldwell program.
    Okay. I think this is what's going on.
    Yeah. So. So I did like the second rowers.
    1001. Yeah. 2100021 becomes zero.
    And they said program for women's riding.
    Riding means what they going 1120y going for no electron to some electron where no electron being black for progress.
    Right right something. But then.
    Oh, so this is why if you have now the new data 0111011 for the first still program.
    But for the second, the third cell means our line because already a data are always not done on individual cell page on the entire block.
    So you actually do the Elis wiping all of everything in all this was they'll change
    changing back at two to all two for once or once break but then then program.
    Well, I think there's some peculiarity and I have just one more example to say and with which we bring a hope, hopefully bring everything together.
    And this is an example we are going to look at together.
    Puppy after break. Right. Why don't we take a ten minute break, come back at the six, 630 to make it 635 at 635.
    This is one. So.
    Yeah. Can I. Can I have your attention? So in this case, in this diagram, we.
    We're assuming that there's only one bra. Okay. There's a so there's a that the awning bar was the one and the only.
    The only one. Only one from this project has how many pages?
    Casey, how many protesters did they have? How many pitches in this block.
    Sexier. How many pages are free? To the last two three mins that don't have any data I.
    Okay. All right, Amanda, four pages.
    Okay. Now there were two blue and two where someone at this point, someone tries to try.
    Someone is trying to modify the first.
    Read this one. Was she the desk controller?
    Do. Watch.
    What should the device do? Okay.
    This is a this modify the first read why this modifier means writing or overlay.
    Although I remember all I need to be down on the entire what prong?
    Okay. Now one more thing to say whenever you erase programing anyways, there's one cycle P means program.
    E means what? Erase that p cycle.
    Every device can only sustain a certain number of the cycle.
    Set a number of cycle Y.
    So, for example, this particular device can only survive ten 100,000 cycles, which means you don't want to do that often, right?
    You don't want to finish a complete cycle too quickly.
    I mean, you don't want to take a lie out of the individual cell unless it's absolutely necessary, which means Kadima,
    which means the controller in this scenario does control have other options other than erasing the entire block.
    Erasing a least needed ban on the entire Broadway.
    Any other options? Any adoption.
    Certainly that that is not going to override any where your people agree.
    I agree. What we say is no go. So this is Dale Page.
    It just controlled. Remember that which page is in which state?
    It doesn't mean that the tests that the device is overriding the data.
    No, just it just remember the first page now is outdated.
    The new page actually go to one of the free pages.
    Give us, see what's going on. Why not free?
    Pages. Okay. At this point, what operation has been performing?
    Reading. Writing or writing?
    Writing? How many pages? Just one page.
    Okay, so the new this this actually to change.
    Changing means a new content for the old page.
    First page. The new content now is putting and put it here.
    Put it here. Right. You see what I'm finding to put it there.
    In the meantime, in addition to that disc controller, Right.
    The device controller, I should say device controller. Keep it some kind of a data structure right there.
    Data structure. Basically saying that first page now is outdated, doesn't contain valid data.
    Okay. Yeah. It also also the think of this.
    That's basically what's going on. Okay. Now I, I want to find so far questions hands of you have questions.
    Now at this point, to summarize, trying to new writing, right?
    It's trying to write new files going, wow, this file this guy has, how many pages, how many pages to just make you are with me, right?
    This is assuming there's a new file, two pages. What should the guys do?
    That's the device has enough three pages. No stars have enough space.
    Well, unless you do the Wire and unless you make this deal page space, occupy a better stale page available.
    Agree that you're going to have one free and the other one here you have a nice space where people agree.
    Okay. If you agreed to that, that means at this point that device needed to do.
    Do what? Eloise Right.
    People, people see that. Because this time you're going to you're going to clean up the stale page damage
    overlay and write in a memo all while modifying data is not done on individual pages,
    individual page, but on what entire what in blog people see that you don't want to write individual page.
    So before before erasing the entire block, you can read pages like this.
    Like when I say read all pages, but a controller might be smart enough.
    Just read the four pages here. No need to read stale page.
    There's nothing in a free page. Okay. That will also be possible assuming that we need a lead.
    Okay. Can I. Can I. Can I put a note here? We all.
    Well, a page. Okay, I can put a note here.
    Lee Orwell. A page. That their pages should be or where the page.
    Okay. And you want to put the point at their right shape.
    And I think I put a pointed. It really over the page.
    If you all see that there in this case, how many pages need to be read to the staging area?
    And remember the controller, that device has certain staging area.
    Work. AIUI has RAM has CPU and can allow you to do some work inside a device.
    Okay. So assuming there's only write only where a pages are read to the staging area, how many pages will be left for Peggy?
    I won't see that before. For now, inside this staging area.
    Actually, you can do an hour one. This is not how to SSD.
    I mean not. This is main Ram. Ram well made memory.
    So it basically does blog is here.
    And six pages you actually rearrange my true blue showing up first to read and put the to going there.
    Okay now what? Then Eloise, why?
    Basically data backup effect, picking up data in the here and putting new data out there, cleaning up the old data clinically in other space.
    That old data or outdated data. Erase, erased erasing is done on the entire block.
    People see that, right? Eloise in her book. Now, what lost Eva is what?
    Writing. Writing? How many pages? Cespedes.
    Okay. Let me know any questions.
    You. Again, this example is allows you to see to putting everything together, right?
    Yeah. Of this the question is how, how, how, how do we decide how to us.
    I would say to that how do we decide the pages?
    Okay. So the question is, how do we decided the pages are stale or not?
    So so I think the controller controller.
    So this controller, remember where I, what I, what I, what I point you to this controller, assuming this the controller logic.
    The controller controller has a certain amount of memory to remember.
    Right. Remember which page A still gave it to me.
    Ask you. So how many people know something? Copy map anyone?
    How many people know P map api TB map. Some of you.
    Yeah. So? So. So I guess some kind of data.
    Your answer is some kind of data structure like a pin map maintained, maintained by the controller.
    And that B map is basically is, is telling you that, oh, the first page contains still data.
    Second page all the way to this page has where the data and last page is what is free.
    Yeah. So essentially you do some kind of data structure that that keeps track of the state, the state or individual pages.
    A page could be still could be free cause or what can also contain what?
    Well, a data I guess a critical state. So I would page it could be do it all and controller has that has said that information.
    Yeah right yeah. Any other questions.
    Putting everything together, daring someone, then we can come out.
    But there's the latency by latency.
    So assuming that assuming that rhe latency is 20 y.
    What did you ask us? What? What it means is millisecond, a microsecond microsecond.
    So real latency is to fly right in and say is 250, which won't take a longer.
    Really? Right. Why take a ten times longer, Right.
    Yeah. I did not tell you to repossess, but your intuition is telling you which one.
    Take a longer reading or writing. Writing?
    Yeah, reading, actually, just sensors, a sound sense or whatnot.
    And I'm not going to go into detail, but the writing, writing wall lecture move movement of electrons take longer, erase it, take it you want longer.
    Write Elway's brain the device to tear the scale of the heart excuse to why?
    Why Elway's take a one point y millisecond going from Michael to millisecond.
    You see that?
    So adding together so that that so this particular workflow workflow modifying a webpage and adding two new new green pages this workflow.
    Incur how much latency? Okay, if that was the question that you need, we need to figure out how many pages are red,
    how many iterations, how many Bronchi airways, and how many pages are later.
    Okay, can I ask you to call that question? So how many how many pages are later?
    And in any like here and in any, any right here, any any pages later here for this let.
    As why I hear people see the OC.
    What a true green OC. So I think that there were two things going on.
    First is riding of Rad Ry, I should say, modifying or modifying the RAD Turning to what?
    Riding or what? A new page.
    One. Why do people with me to green coming right to green lead to one?
    Eloise, People agree. How many less?
    Wang Anyways, how many less? Assuming the audience were to pay that they better write it down.
    So write down something here so I can put it here.
    Now. I guess the. What I can say is not that.
    Okay. Okay. This one.
    Right. So essentially is. Modify y modify a rat.
    One. Wah! People agree.
    While right away we noticed writing, adding two new greeting.
    What do we do? It's going to lead to y y El Camino at for blood reading only where they really pay to lay people with me.
    I clarify this where reading anywhere two pages for less.
    Photo by Wang Eloise.
    Followed by how many pages are.
    Six. What? Six.
    Why? Six wives. So altogether seven wives.
    So so I think that's the. Which means in sum for these price seven lives plus how many ways.
    Wireless and you can plug in the latency to give you the total latency.
    Right. I think that's a. We don't.
    We don't. We don't. We don't. We don't. We don't we don't consider the ban.
    We say this case. I think a lot of families think about how much latency, the entire workflow this workflow has to to operations.
    I was good with that example. Feel free to ask questions.
    Right. But Don West, Assistant Sierra.
    Key concept is blog and we realize blogging hotfix to support killer by and here is much larger content
    bros becoming pages in SSD reading writing you are leading to entire page writing entire page,
    but the SSD has always it doesn't have over.
    Why? Why is that? Eli's erasing is Lilly leads an entire block.
    The browser has a lot of pages sexy. As I said, he doesn't like our way.
    Okay. So SSD. Right that doesn't like where I am, and she might be able to give you additional information.
    Star system. Fine. Oh, doing something that's funny.
    So remember the introduction slides. I somewhere have exemple all consensual.
    Yeah, consensual. Not quiet, but to have.
    I think. I think I get something here. How many people use Cassandra before Cassandra?
    How many people heard about Cassandra? What is Cassandra?
    Is sequel and no sequel database. No sequel. Yeah, I guess there's still some flexible, more flexible data model day and table things in my sequel, I.
    So in consensual, if you are writing the data, the process goes like this.
    Someone tried to write the data for us, right? Right.
    First, add a log to request.
    Write a log. Add a log to the log database.
    The log file a add an entry to a log file.
    How many people? No log at all. Log Like a web server.
    Right. Anything. Anything. Anything special you can say about the law.
    In terms of leading lights, in terms of lighting and our lady.
    I guess I can I can. I can change my question.
    If you happen to know Locke, why now?
    Typically will people ever change the engine and log?
    No, the log are for keeping historical data you added just adding entry.
    So which means a log file a append on.
    Can I say that? What does it mean? Adding to their.
    And you keep adding things like a penalty. You're now going to go back to the globe, go to your law and look at the yesterdays and entry and modify.
    Right. Because that's a hit. Are you going to change history?
    Probably not. I mean, things happen to happen. I mean, you so long as a penalty, you never will overdo it.
    People agree SSD is good or bad for that.
    This kind of file is a good a bad SSD does as it does SSD like our life?
    No. So as it's you can store commit flogging, SSD and the wives will be very happy to see that.
    Yeah. Just keep adding energy.
    Okay, then this is step number one.
    Step number two, you actually lied to the main family. There's something called ma'am table memory.
    Table. Okay. And at a certain point, the memory table grows in size big enough.
    You can actually flash crash to the storage far too fast to SSD, for example.
    Fast, mean. Light it back. Right. Write it back. But here's what's going on.
    Disappointing information. But I do want to give you some some kind of context, a little bit context on this.
    I'm going to say that later at the. Here's what I'm saying.
    The flash is not overriding consensual network or lighted 16 table.
    So this assuming this of the percent table by and someone change the.
    Jong age from 25 to 26.
    Remember what we did? Remember the firebase people? Remember what we did to Firebase.
    So I'm a user. We changed the age away 125 to 28.
    Assuming we're doing the same here to user.
    That's a user y user. User 100 A change.
    Change to 25 to 26. Okay. You're going to say 226.
    So what's going on here? Is that change worse than what you.
    You remember that in the lock by adding a new entry right to the last people with me.
    Then you modify the user's table, whereas the version of a user table in my memory.
    It just changed it 25 to 26. But you might have a version of a user table eating SSD that still has, what, 25%?
    It doesn't go to the storage to change that. It's just changing in the main memory.
    Once my memory has changed, I think it's little. Why has it acknowledged the user?
    Why complete? Okay. Now, what happened is but remember at this point that 26 has not been returned to the star.
    What happened to missing crash? What exchange will be able to recover from the failure?
    Well, that would be what I will do with a database able to recover the 26 whatever
    able people remember the difference between the main memory and its storage.
    If you crash, what happened to the data in my memory or what would still be there?
    No, it's gonna be great. Yeah. So how would you recover for all storage for our law so it doesn't actually lie to the storage is right.
    So because, look, it's apparent only and because it doesn't apply to the storage, the lie can be.
    The lie can be Acknowledge very fast. People agree, acknowledge you.
    And because NGO probably has a very good life upon us and is good for application that need a need to do a lot.
    Right. Right. Right. Right. Right.
    Okay. So the one thing that's interesting to say is so may mean maintain or grow in size.
    You light it back. And remember what I said. The SSD is my my have a number of version of the user table already,
    but it doesn't or doesn't change let's say how to with you wasn't one and use a table for again write it back has version two the
    version 2000 our the data in version one instead emerge this to version two version three something like that to the new was.
    Yeah and fortunately the file is a pen.
    Only people know the merchant.
    How many people look at emojis on how people how very well what assignment you saw, how many know how many people know what I'm talking about.
    But it emerges all is sorted by key.
    You think about a key where to pair got. Every person has a key and you have a two words.
    You will use a table and we use as key sorted by key and merge so sorted by key emerged together going to the third place.
    He never actually all-White wasn't one, wasn't two and it wasn't three.
    Is a pen only see that much? And I keep writing and she there.
    And it wasn't one wasn't to just erase. Okay.
    Again, as as these. Happy. Happy. Why or why.
    Right. Okay. So I guess my point here is to when you design a new database system,
    you want to pay attention to the behavior or behavior and collect like a listing of your storage device.
    I try to utilize that. And so that ought to have a good performance.
    Right. That was my point. All right.
    With that, I think I'm done with the storage system discussion on Cassandra just for just a few.
    All right. To any question here.
    I do need you to know this example. Right. We are, we now are ready to move on.
    If you no question, move on to the next layer on top of stories based on what we'll do.
    You have what do we have for our system? Yeah, I think this you're probably more familiar with file system people, right?
    So for our system, I could bring up the slide.
    Filesystem processing is relatively easy to talk about because now we can we can point to EC2 the fastest.
    And right there we can look at a file system there. Hey.
    Now filesystem. I get to go to the U.S., too, right away.
    Okay. So log into C2 if you want to follow along.
    Just bunch examples after example.
    So, so far, so far, this don't look like so focused on a file and lucky if you're lucky, file of a hierarchies.
    Okay, then we filesystem then typically has a load allergy blue and then you see to go to loot allergy cd cd.
    What should I say? I got stuck here. I think I.
    I need to start over. Right.
    Oracle go to loot allergy flax seed seed was slash and dilute allergy has number saboteur allergy people see home I city home and a home at what?
    Ubuntu City Ubuntu. And this is.
    This is my home galaxy. My user id call ubuntu.
    Okay. If my sister has a directory.
    You know, that was nothing. Nothing much to see. I can.
    I don't mean to step command. I was showing you.
    I So let's try to understand. I think the key. Okay. The key take away in a discussion of filesystem is metadata and the data.
    Okay, Metadata data, again, stress, which No maintain metadata.
    Nay, no. Which No. Stores. Data.
    Data could be multiple data. No. Yes.
    Or although we have only one right when we set it up. Yeah, there could be multiple data, but typically only one they know.
    Although in in recent version, who do you could have multiple data?
    No running actually running at the same time, but one that between you have three nine nodes running at the same time of what but that they they
    altogether the elected one as the main one may want to use a the client talked to the the main one.
    Ed. All right. So getting back to the again, a key the key key here is understanding metadata and the data that we know the data,
    but understand metadata and which you aren't really going to help us understand what's what's in there.
    They know. I think that's a goal and a concept.
    But Blore will come back again. Okay. All right.
    So with that said, that's now look at the stair command more carefully, step, command, display data, all metadata about the file metadata.
    We already see the file name the metadata. What is the 46.
    Size in terms of what what is what buys by way of size and decide how many block allocated a what is block size for kilobyte?
    There's a regular file instead of ten. What do I have to look through here?
    And this time why you see that different time, they said.
    Also metadata is it's a file that actually let's not talk about the legacy too much but do anyway.
    So device ID, I know something.
    I know. I know that.
    So can I say can I say can I say this automated metadata we're looking at here is a store.
    I know I means index index.html and we file a file system.
    System has. I know. Okay.
    So I should say of the file system.
    That right? So then maybe just keep it like that.
    It's more detail, if I want to say more, but that we file has metadata.
    People agree metadata still, I no index, no basically file system has certainly area vouchers to manage the storage,
    storage, devise and allocate a certain area so that for air we file it has space to store a metadata there.
    Space is called I know index.html and the index.
    We will see why it's called index and we I know has number almost like index.
    You think about the I, I know is array data array.
    Don't you have an index to a railway index. Start stop one way zero zero.
    Be the number. I know number. And you can think about this.
    This is. index.HTML. Okay.
    I write this. I know numbers indexed ignored a links.
    Now today let's look at access. What does access mean? So seven, seven, seven.
    Why? What does it mean? The permission?
    Yeah, permission. Now, now, in this list today, we need a floor.
    We need us sit down and fully understand the people in mercy as more common.
    We ask you to together see what I said.
    Do change a flower mo base.
    Which means permission. Is it permission? Remember more to 400.
    My sunflower name. Say hello. That's what I shouldn't say.
    400 400. What? That's a400 Me.
    Readable only to the owner. No other people can do anything to do well.
    Yeah. So, uh. Okay, so let's understand this.
    Hello to test. I do not ask.
    You see tomorrow. So let's understand the entire.
    But so whenever you see the D in a first position, it's telling you what?
    How do you cross this final analogy? People see what I'm trying to say.
    And we watch focus in an object way showing.
    Shown here has a list of character at the beginning.
    You see that if a first character is de means, the cross is what?
    To tell you it was Dash for the employees.
    Hello. Where's. Where's my. Hello? That's right. Here is the dash means file.
    Okay. Okay. That was what I'm trying to say. Okay.
    This is a file, is it? Hello? It's a file. A dialog. It's a file of dialog.
    Okay. After that first dash, what I'm highlighting.
    How many? How many characters? What I'm highlighting.
    Like how many character morality here? Can you count, including at that specialty night?
    Yeah. So night divided into three groups for a three character are the permission for whom you serve.
    Well, you all know this file who own this file Ubuntu.
    Ubuntu lets you use my cell. All right. Yeah. User you necessary is a permission for the users in a same group.
    What is a google name? Ubuntu.
    This is a user name. This is a google may have happened to be the same last.
    The last three is what? What? Permission for whom. All of you.
    All of you. All of you.
    So with that said so. So that's the thing about this.
    So our W dash, right?
    Is the permission for the honor, right? Me Which means on Okinawa.
    Lee Ly the last petition for what?
    As Q as the files are not executable. Right. Okay.
    So the permission is limited by something here.
    W That means in binaries one, one, one and the one.
    Zero. What should I say here?
    So. For the honor.
    There are three patrician, three character. First calico.
    First calico. First letter. First letter is, as you say, first character.
    First petition is either ah or what? Dash OC second position is either W or what?
    Dash third position either x you don't get a c x.
    You see the X somewhere? Third position is either X or Y or death.
    People see that now. So.
    And this is binary, Right? Right. So for the owner, it will be for the owner of this helo that has what would be the permission?
    As one C to R means one. W means one.
    That means one zero. But what?
    That's a binary, right. What number is that in that in decimal.
    Six. So far, so good, sir.
    Hello? Hello? Where's. Hello? The test. Now you can tell me actually.
    So the permission will be six six. Four.
    Yeah, right. And I think I believe that should be the should be what?
    This, this, this access.
    Trying to see why that access very so successful means user can read say owner owner can be also owner can wa lie cannot ask you the same
    permission for the users in say include or are out of users they can audit what we like it okay now you to stay there for the mod 400.
    What does 100 mean?
    You re only can I ask you that next C to see what's going on to the file exchange device changed to that and the permission is on to privacy.
    That only one I Yeah.
    So these files were already protected. Yeah.
    What is the difference between compassion and Mexican? Oh, ask me, what does the question is?
    What does the mean? Executable. Do I have programs somewhere?
    Thank you. Yeah. So I think that's. Somehow all that are executable.
    Right? You see it? Let's X then. Do I have a program?
    Python program? I have a two hour program. No one but the x me as mutable.
    Yes can. Good.
    Right. So going back to the hello to test, we now understand the permission.
    Can I change back? How do I change back? Usually.
    What? Right.
    It was. It was. It is the permission. Yeah, I think so.
    Yeah. I change back. Well, I don't like to hear that too limited use it grew it and I think to say there were three times here.
    Access time. What if you could try and change that? What you want for lead.
    Those are three timestamps. Which which of the three times down.
    If you want to guess why, it's for the last kind of wild card that.
    Access to. Exercise.
    Let's test. Let's try that. Okay. And then this.
    There might be some peculiarity going on here. So I'm reading a file for sure.
    Right. Reading the file. The excess triangle change.
    People see the update. Yeah. Exact adenoma modifier right now.
    That's a modified file. Let's see. Why modify at a space somewhere?
    Change back, I think somehow modify. Do you see the modification time change in both?
    Let's see the modification time change this change.
    I think in both cases, the chance to or change in particular in a new light.
    So change time. Can I tell you the last time the access time is read higher modify modify time is what?
    Right. Yeah. And change. That is changing metadata.
    Metadata change. Okay. So if I if are reading a writing and question why.
    When I when I modify the file, not only modify it time to change the change that also change also update y.
    I do not change the I change the size. No, I do not change.
    Did I? No, I did not. I got it back high.
    I basically add a space and remove it now. So no change to the size.
    Any other. Take my question.
    I did modify the file, although it will work with the app.
    And while I can, I can make it even more interesting. How about how about chance to to let it I change the size?
    No. Okay. Why both modified time and a change time update.
    Because access and modify are also part of metadata.
    Is that correct? Yeah, yeah, yeah. People see that.
    So I think that's we know modified time need to be changed.
    I did. I modified a file. It should be updated.
    But because it modified time change, that means metadata change are not.
    Check. So change township change, right? Yeah, Right.
    Right. So accept, modify, write, change to modify all metadata.
    So check that that. Yeah. Yeah. I guess the what?
    Yeah. So can I have a question related to that?
    Could you tell me a command that only change in metadata? That should be a good question to ask.
    Do you already know Command? Yeah. Could you call it a command?
    Whereas executing that command didn't change metadata search law.
    Let's do that search for you.
    I need to do it again. I. You see that access to more and modify time?
    No change. But what time? Change. Change.
    Tire. Okay, so I think so.
    Yeah. So we're file size.
    It was 4652. Are there the box this.
    Yeah. That is good. Yeah. Like, like I said, the ju file system has been very generous of our system and probably is anticipating the growth.
    Yeah. Or maybe two out. So when you, when the files file grow in size y, you might be expensive to keep allocating space.
    Yeah. You can go to 32 with our file system and do Yeah.
    Do lot of work. Yeah. Because every time allocate more space it's take a lot of effort for something.
    Yeah. We're not going to bother that that's going to be the case.
    All right. Uh, I think there's anything else I want to say.
    A little maybe more to say about a file system. I want to show you the data that I know there.
    I think that's about it. Now, I think up to the second break, come back.
    We can talk about this. And I think last time that I give you the demo.
    All right. I start with the demo. Demo. You actually have it.
    We shouldn't have. We may be able to continue here. Why don't we take a last second break?
    Ten minute. Seven. 39 minutes.
    Okay, let's get started. My last part of today's meeting.
    First, let's finish off on filesystem.
    Just be more to say about. I know I giving you more to be more details than we're down with a file system.
    Right. And we should have all the build up necessary for us.
    Okay, so now we show you the slide. So.
    So this. This this diagram I mentioned. Let me show you a bit better.
    A better one. I think that I need to show you this one.
    Okay. So if you look at this. Okay.
    Okay. If you look at this particular storage device, you has how many bog burn numbers?
    0 to 63. So altogether a 64 block file system.
    Wow. Look at this storage device. Look at the device. Right. And it's decided to force a block.
    Meaning that broke at the O2 where side one will be use for storing metadata.
    Okay, the remaining block. How many blocks?
    How many broke left altogether? 64. Yeah, well, we use useless for storing the data.
    Okay, Now, keep in mind this picture change in a case of stress in a case outside this
    entire machine might be dedicated for storing what metadata there your data.
    Instead of 56 rock, you might be dispersed, maybe distributed among multiple data.
    Those people. Sit, sit, sit, sit, sit.
    A jump. Right. See the difference?
    But in this single file system, automated data on data reside in the same device, a storage device.
    Okay so first April zooming to the first possible monophosphate Brock the last five
    Brock are used to store what people see to see that I will store what I know yeah.
    For the zoom in to this. I know. So this is a five blog.
    I blogged zero two, I blogged for four, and we brought people remember the blog size.
    Paul Keller by now, this poor killer by here is divided into how many pieces?
    16 pieces? Yeah. Could you tell me the size of each piece?
    So for a killer party. But if I were 16, what do you have?
    Popular by developed by 16 the desert, as do the math here.
    So who divided by 16? What do you have?
    Right. Let's do the in binary hi for kilobyte 2 to 2.
    Which power? One kilobyte is 2 to 1.
    Remember first week, one kilobyte to total which power.
    Pare. What about for Clever? Talia Can I say.
    Keller, tell the rabbi to travel.
    Four. What do you have? To eight, which is.
    256. Yeah. 2:56 a.m.
    So now, can i tell you how we broke every box here?
    Oui, oui, oui, oui. So a bronx, a poor killer by bravo is divided, divided into 16 pieces.
    Every piece, as I know. So your metadata cannot exceed how many buys?
    256 buys. But basically, that's what's going on.
    Get by. Okay.
    So I think this this. Remember what I said.
    Being a file assistant. So file assistant has.
    I know what we file or directory.
    They say we file in a file system. So which means this file system can have how many files at the most?
    How many? 80. Y 80. Because I got 80 boxes.
    Yeah, because there were five blocks and we brought store.
    How many? I know. 16. I know. Yeah. This file system limit has limit counting store 80.
    Right, right, 80. And the last thing to say is I number I number basically the index,
    you can see the first two rows on I number the first box here, our number is one zero.
    The last one. I know what I know numbers 179.
    Now people have a complete picture.
    Ignore the first three first firstly first reports that also that this to blog this is some kind of bitmap and this is called super Brock super.
    I'll probably store the the I number for the loop direction so the file system can boost bootstrap but ignore that.
    But I think that's due to the importance. The important take away is consider how filesystem organize metadata process in the store.
    Metadata being a data data structure call what? I know.
    Okay? I know. And if I was just in case there's an area for storing metadata.
    I know what I mean. Syntax.
    Why? And this is a ray of 80 floors.
    And I number just index into the index into into this particular law.
    Okay. People getting the picture. That's all I need you to know.
    In a file system. Actually, you can order less of it. If I do not say that angry, don't worry about it.
    Or read or write. That's economic. That's all I need you to know.
    All right. So any any question in the comments.
    Well, ready to talk about. Yeah, talk about your question.
    Right. So. Well, executives.
    I know, right? So I means one. Index.
    Yeah. So. I think one way to think think of this is so I know mass index.
    No. Think of. So this goes on.
    I know why I know this and you can think of it I know is a rate of note away of note, a list of numbers.
    And in this particular example, how big is that array?
    How many how many elements does that or we have 80 that 80 and we atomos I no index.
    No. And the right index? No. I know.
    And we I know his number. I number. I know that number.
    But the number basically is index y. You can think of this.
    Okay. So I think that's what we need to know.
    Now, this and any other questions we are ready to move on to address.
    Okay. And I need to show you this.
    Okay, so first thing first, let me complete a completed demo last time.
    So I think that I need a start, so.
    Okay, This is important. If you have my my sequencer, my SQL server running all easy to priest of the first.
    Otherwise, it's going to be very slow. My contacts somewhere.
    So I need to start on my SQL server before I start my address.
    Right. Now, remember last last week I got one that I make.
    I told you, I think that we went through the process of starting with Did I even give it?
    I started with the example. So I need to go to me.
    See, I do. And I think here, how do I start?
    As being right, as being start the first.
    Hopefully you got started. Okay, JP's all three.
    Make sure you have all three. Let me give you some time.
    I go too easy to make sure start this established in most people always remember that.
    Later we have less. They will want Pi, Spock, rest.
    Spock also need to start somewhere because my mouse cursor was using lot of emoji, almost 50% of emoji and we only have one gigabyte away.
    I mean all actu. How many people have all three to see?
    All three K single people still working on follows you.
    You have all three. Let's talk to our system.
    I say being nice, being addressed as do errors slash.
    I'm not sure if I have anything there. I might have. Yeah, I have a two year.
    Okay. I can create another tablet that's called a home How to Create a Trilogy.
    To make the slash whole.
    I don't have. Do I have a home galaxy? Not yet. Not yet.
    So I guess. I guess. Here's what I'm trying to say.
    Can I. Can I. Can I do this? Ubuntu while sim providers have a home and job.
    Can i. Could I ask you this? Do I want it?
    Do I already have home? Now let me try that.
    Do I already have a home? D'allergie. No, no, no, no, I.
    I mean, I don't have a home here.
    So is complaining that in order to create a subtitle under home.
    What do I need to do now? I need to make which dialog Holmfirth.
    I don't have home in the total. Don't get confused by this.
    We're talking about the dehumidifier system.
    Not my local fire system. Then I can make a dialog to underscore people.
    People see what's going on. There's a creating in a deal with.
    Question. If you do not have a name though, then you want to start first.
    Yeah, stuff first and room format of the file system. Okay. So if you don't have it, you don't know.
    Yeah. You start first. Write the stop as being slash stop the first search, stop the everything first.
    Then you want to say being stressed they know they know format whether to command.
    I do not ask you the first one. Right. Basically do member Starr and it's thought is under which that actually being or is being.
    As being as means water system being a system system.
    Binary is a program for maintaining the system are under being beings by means binary.
    So far we just just look at just that it has been using address the only program That's right.
    If you're missing any anyone anyone else having trouble missing, then no.
    And I think this should has dissolved. Any trouble.
    That's your second tab, right? Second, Have we posted your second letter?
    Not yet. No second letter, but basically asking you to run landlords example and explain.
    It's boring what each command is doing.
    So it's second level. Super positive. So good.
    Can I. Can I move on? So. I can do mood, actually.
    Remove that and I'll do that now. Okay. So this there's a push something and put something there.
    Okay, so here. How about put a little meat on me?
    Let me see right here. So being FDA was not a done deal.
    Device. Put, put means what?
    That's put me. No grading people.
    Remember, I did ask you to use as a freebie. Did I ask you to use FTB as FTB?
    No, no, no. So put is uploading or downloading. Uploading something to each of us, right?
    We are talking to each device. So that's put a local file.
    There's a local file. You see, I have it on me.
    Like here. You see that you have put under your home, John?
    That's right. Yeah.
    Any question? Okay.
    Now, how do I see the content of the file I put on the put the put on HD health care command word?
    Yeah, but now I need to say Cat, what else should I say?
    And you need to make it a completely slash.
    Whereas leader the lead army we all address. Under what?
    Slash. What? Home. Slash what? Joy, I don't forget it.
    I need to. I need to put a complete energy. They basically lead on me questioning you.
    So for the last.
    A go to for the pokemon. Can I.
    Can I. Can I put the little test there? You.
    No, no, you don't want to do that because Paul is putting what to what to wear.
    Yeah. You want to put the request first? Yeah. I think the question is, does the automatic order does matter.
    Okay. He has copy command. So far, so good. Your question?
    I try to make the directory. That means you could.
    Can you check it? You could. You could, yes. And make sure you have all three servers running.
    You have all three selves running. I know you're getting at there.
    Saying what, Commissioner? Access to the IRA connection Refuse.
    You have a nanosecond reading. Yeah, that I would need to take a look at anyone.
    I was having a problem. Access denied? Yeah, somewhat.
    I think that start with a hanging in the middle. Any. Any trouble?
    Yeah. What kind of trouble? You have a name, address, photo.
    The same. Yeah. That said he. I think he's problem too.
    If they know it's not their status of us, it's How do you start a server as being a member?
    Why stop Dash? Why do you start as such?
    You start the first. Once you have the server stop, then you want the new format.
    Okay. Because I'm not having to. How how, how would you format the file system?
    Which command? And being being slashed.
    Which which program As Steve's.
    Yeah. Same program that we are using to try to put a stop there.
    Right. To do that to to to execute of our system command.
    I mean, the. Those commando familiar with the new format being slash.
    Name no dash format. Okay.
    I saw some hand on the bag and you have trouble. Same part.
    Yeah. So they know stuff the surfers ask you to them being as dress name.
    No bash format. Right. Their status us again, hopefully this resolved issue.
    Now. No idea about the permit permission to idle. Poll Post Question Post question on Piara.
    Get any out of trouble. Yeah.
    Permission denied. So when you ask YouTube's, Are you able to see all three servers?
    Jess Gibb Yes, that means you haven't started the summer.
    Yeah. You want to start a server? Yeah, it started.
    How do you start a server, go under this dialog as being start, right.
    I'm not sure if that's, that's the case as well. So you want to make sure also.
    So is that it. Yeah. Right. Any, any anything else that.
    Yeah. So now if the three the inspiration will be flying wine, but there could be a problem with these rotation.
    But usually the there's some peculiarity that that that that prevents and they know one starting up for some reason.
    Yeah. And sometimes that they don't it doesn't show up Yeah maybe got corrupted I don't know but even then or not showing up the
    typical is this status server new format usually resolved problem solve the problem anyone anyone not having the data?
    No. Anyone not having data? No. Yeah.
    If you don't have a data, no. Okay. Well you can do it again.
    Start a server. You know what to do the starter so it there.
    What do you want to do to go to slash town.
    Yeah. Slash town. Do the areas where are you able to locate.
    Do you can do first directory. I able to see that. How do you Bandera.
    Yeah. Go on to that. Do two areas go under DVS two areas you want to remove everything and the data that actually remove remove.
    But I have a two option here was are they around?
    What does army anyone? Someone know?
    Yeah, some people know because they're pretty close. They are going to wipe out everything right under data.
    Be careful in not executing this in the wrong place. Yeah. Once you've done that first, make sure it's over.
    Once you're done that and I think you start a server, usually that sort of problem.
    Okay. So there are no missing data, no missing in CPUs.
    Go to use slash slash can slash.
    How do ubuntu this directory store all the files?
    Did you realize this now actually stole here or did I get to go to this direction whenever we were doing make dodge as a cab.
    Basically talked to this that that is start starter store day. Okay.
    And they don't know it's missing you want to remove that so that when you start a server
    you actually create new create a new brand new data data download data directory.
    Okay okay to to typical problem we people people saw in a pass.
    So I know the solution right yeah so yeah to cover.
    Yeah. Right.
    So remote data is basically missing data. No. In GBS in the neo-darwinism.
    Missing name. No. Yeah. Missing Nano. Then you did a stop and look for that.
    Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Our. No problem. You good?
    Uh, that's. That's mobile here, right? So essentially this we did a put we can also copy a while for an address to another SD.
    I was told D'apres. Okay, so all I need is a copy.
    How do I say copy c p c p.
    So let me just say hello to test. How about it?
    So we make a copy of a read to me that has an and to create a new file called Hello that has basically this have having the same thing, same content.
    No. I need to ask you under. How do I. Okay, then do the errors again.
    Listing this dialog. Dash you have additional. There are two files right now.
    Exactly the same. I'm copying to lead me and to a new while.
    Yeah. So what?
    What? So I guess the question would be what? What does he do?
    So we don't know. So I do not have a whole lot of tests before I skewed because I CPA.
    So essentially make it make another copy of the file.
    Yeah. Good.
    Can we get rid of the halo that has which command to color that file?
    How do I get her? A hot chocolate or fire? CP instead of sleep with it, I say.
    I want to delete a file. I am. Yeah.
    The files should be gone. I can check. Should we call?
    Okay. There's only one file under John Derek. Anything else I want you to know?
    By the way, I think there's. Question.
    Increase. Do we have to for this reason? Because. Say it again.
    So when I when we create a dialog, then yeah, you go to the the points of all of this, let's try this.
    So under this dialog I think that's, that's why.
    All right I think Lead me is still there.
    So your question is how do, how do we delete all the file under this dialog because oh you if you want to do it,
    did it want if you want to delete the dialog, why don't we try that.
    So, So delete dialog is what I am.
    What. There I am the.
    Yeah. Let's see what work. But keep in mind that you already have something I know is not empty, which means you can try.
    You might have a lonely cause. Yeah, but to be say, can we do.
    I am first. And slash. This will hopefully get it out of the underworld.
    And a job. Right. Then I can remove John is a.
    I don't need to put the last leg, but I think you probably know. Can I do the I again?
    Areas slash home and there's a home there.
    John, should we call? Yeah, right.
    Yeah. I think that's all I need you to know.
    That's Lukhanyo am KTAR. For what?
    Making their here. You need to do this step by step, right?
    You cannot say I'm CD slash ABC slash slash.
    Please let people see what I'm saying. You need it. You need to say make it like a mega-deal slash a recipe and make it to make a decent S,
    a, B, and C, okay, So make it easier for making dialog and I remove.
    You want to make sure is empty words. Why? How do I how to do that?
    I see people copy. Okay.
    And we know. We know city when I city we know put.
    In addition to that, you also have one get.
    Okay, let's get something to. I have something here.
    I don't hear anything. So I need to I need to post something here.
    Can I put around a home? I'm going to put the lady me lead to lead me on the home?
    Yeah. Then I going get.
    Get under homes. Okay. They are local.
    We are going to call it. Hello? The test. Hello. Local that has.
    That's even. She works. Do I have a hello local?
    I do. It works. Okay. Pope is uploading guys.
    This one. Downloading?
    Yeah. I think what, Don?
    And I think Latin to show and show us is I mean, in terms of the command,
    I show you the Web Web page, the Web site with a more complete list of a command.
    Okay. Can I. Okay. Someone still looking at a screen.
    Yeah. So you are talking about a comeback here or talking about the.
    Because I see them being astrology.
    Astrology. Yeah.
    So we can take a look at. So being is it that actually we all see that CDP being due to errors Lozada.
    So stress is basically your command under that. Yeah it's a command as it is is a program.
    So what? So if you want to do whatever you need to do with the effort.
    That's right. That's right. Yeah. Basically in order to, to help to address file system, I need,
    I need to use this particular particular program is quite to use and this program is located under the being directory.
    Exactly. And this program take a lot a number of arguments.
    Yeah. It is as they have program also allow you to format it.
    They know, remember. Okay.
    Hopefully you are okay. And like I say, I want to try to find the website.
    Why do I never see. Let me do the search for her.
    Do. File system command.
    Can I show you right away? Yeah, I think that way.
    That's not a war. Process.
    No. Show. Come in, Show.
    Come in. There.
    I think this is one. Yeah, I think this one.
    I can shoot it now. So do the Google search.
    If I do the search search. I had heard who do our system share command.
    So basically, while searching on share, I share. They bring you to this page.
    And as you have a more concrete list of a list of a command, a list of command.
    We know Seattle. Let's go to. We know CPR.
    Get our ass dere put.
    I am. I think there's. I am recursively that recursive stat command.
    Well, actually, that's ignored. Yeah, there's a lot of options.
    It's kind of confusing and unnecessary. Confusing. But I think that's going to help people if I just give you the some resources.
    At this time. Can I step back and talk about the idea of a system being a working high level?
    I look at the architecture. So how do has two component people remember what they let out?
    If you happen to know a do has two components, what are two components and how do.
    Why is stress? We have been working with the airlines water.
    Mobility. Yeah. So. So how do has two things.
    One is for storage, distributor storage, which is file system.
    Right. And compute payroll computation, which is MapReduce storage and data processing.
    Data storage, data processing. As part of their debt management management business.
    Why? So how do is larger scale distribute per patch processing framework infrastructure?
    A lot of data, a lot of computation data, distributed computation.
    Distributed batch processing means no interaction.
    But you submit a job, you go grab a coffee, you come back 20 minutes later and 20 minutes later, draw, finish.
    During that 10 minutes that your processing time, you don't interact with this job.
    Batch processing. Okay, So fast forward to this particular sly.
    I think I probably show you this line in the first week where yeah, actually recall what we have now.
    We have we know a great deal that we know a lot more.
    Okay, so this address set up has has a single name.
    No. Right. And they know. Okay, how many did I know?
    We didn't know. Yeah, they know. Store metadata data.
    Yeah. Anything. Could you. Could you now tell me the metadata about a fool?
    This fool, I a fool. What kind of metadata are we looking at?
    Of of who did that? Well, I didn't know that. What kind of metadata?
    I can show you additional information. Additional information here.
    Yeah. I think this one poppy score.
    So, uh, this file is, uh, people recognize the format of this file.
    Zemlya. So this small is.
    I smell flour basically is. It's.
    It's telling us why. What? What is in name?
    No. Okay, so. Okay,
    So as the Avis file system has a utility to allow you to download data in a no to XML
    file and this is how I got the example while people people see what I'm trying to say.
    Yeah. So this page is the file image, right?
    Image, a thumbnail image and then in a small format so people can see inside this small file, you see that A.S.
    People see the intersection inside this I know section has a I know element.
    This is the Alamo. This is a Star Trek. And we're going to see this.
    We're going to look at examples soon. So Star Trek and Tech.
    So they said one particular I know one party that I know.
    I know. Oh.
    Now, I know Section is telling you this question has how many flowers or end or dialog and dialog?
    How many? 38. Yeah. Okay. And you presumably you're going to have a 30 a I know element here.
    30. I know, I know.
    Has ID remember I number.
    I know number has a tie. Has it higher profile or what.
    They're lucky. Has a name, but somehow this name atomized, empty.
    Is it has a special meaning. Meaning this dialog is anyone want to guess what dialog.
    Jesus, Lou, I am timing.
    What is the impact? People remember more modified time.
    Yeah, people remember the Punisher. Seven, five, five.
    Me. What does that one five?
    I mean Siamese. Readable, readable.
    Executable. Why me? Why?
    What is it? Why in binary? 110101.
    So readable as curable. Yeah. Good. You can always have it.
    So this a dialog here. This I know, is directly on file.
    Well and has additional information about what?
    The blogs by blog that store the content of while we brought her brought ID and some kind of size.
    How how much data store there were small file.
    Okay. And this in addition to that, you see this.
    You also has this I know has something called preferred proxies, because I'm I have someone tell me what numbers that it's kind of difficult to see.
    But anyway, I happen to know what numbers that roughly how many?
    534. Okay.
    So the proxy size. Right. And this number. Right.
    This number is 134. 1 million.
    Did I get it right? I think that's a million, right?
    Yeah, 134 million. About. I can I tell you now, this this actually is said a number some some megabyte is 120 a.
    Megabytes. One every megabyte as a means is 128 million people agree?
    How many pies are there in? 128 megabytes. He's 128 times what to throw what Pele.
    Megabyte. Remember to to the power No.
    Six Maccabi. Remember first week.
    Okay, Python three. Does how do I say two to the two, to the tempo, or how do I say the two?
    There's a 2 to 10 power, right? Yeah. So 120.
    A power to track which power. 100 only a megabyte to total.
    Which power two to the ten is killer.
    But don't forget, first we.
    Megabyte is a two tier lower [INAUDIBLE]. I think that's a number I see 234 to 7 217 and 728.
    Right. That's exactly the number. So as Steve has, it's all logical Baraga, size, logical profile, and this size, this one in this in this dress.
    The before Blocksize is 128, one megabyte.
    It's much larger there and for some reason.
    For some reason. Yeah. So far, so good.
    So essentially this they all at an adult where looking at a metadata here,
    a replication factor is one that I think we can go back and now go back to Sly and and Kokomo.
    So in this particular set up, what would be the replication factor?
    You, too. Yeah. So they means.
    Well, every block the system keeps to How many copies?
    Two copies or two level cuts. People see that to know the cost.
    For example, who right now raise money for food.
    You should have a lot of the metadata in mine. I just show you the size, I don't know, permission, things like that.
    But in addition to that, can I tell you this important piece of metadata is a location or blocks,
    location or block sitter who is a file, who has how many block?
    Three. What are the Bronx Pride Number one?
    Number two, ANOVA. Number four, Every frog has How many copies?
    Two copies could replicate. For example, number one, two copies.
    Two copies are brought. Number one are stored, which there are no.
    A and a what? C file system address.
    Need to need to know the location of this one and the one these two replica agree the location data or metadata.
    Metadata so kept by name? No. Or data, No name, no important piece of metadata.
    Yeah, everything is. So the question is, say the question again.
    How do you know it's replicated? Because we're talking about a block one way or one has a copy here and also copy there.
    See either. Oh, yeah, bro. Number one, you.
    Yeah. I should be able to survive another 5 minutes.
    Okay. So far, so good. I think there's not much to see and anything else I want to see.
    So again, again, my point here is location or blocks is would be very important piece of metadata.
    Then in the case of SD, I was crying, actually got exposed to the location, as we will see soon.
    Okay. Perhaps the last thing to look at today is to understand why 128 was such a pick up where we pick file size.
    If you start a question, if you started data ice, what do you what do you want to do with the data or get the two questions?
    If you ever use that dress, if you ever use, how do you want to put a lot of data there?
    A small amount data, a lot of data may be killed by a terabyte, right?
    Yeah, that was question number one. Question number two, what do you want to do with that data?
    What kind of a question you want to ask. Let's say you put some sales data.
    How about sales data?
    Everybody knows sales the last five year sales data to their last five year Wal-Mart sales data, transaction data to the to to do.
    Okay. So you want to do something with that? Analyze some data. So which one would be more typical?
    You're going to use their produce to look at a particular transaction at a particular time by a particular user.
    That's that's the scenario A Scenario B, you'll want to find the annual sales amount in a certain in a certain category of product.
    Which one is more typical? The second one. The second one.
    Got a touch more data, right. Do you typically log on in court looking to put data to do to in order to do the Google search?
    You search instead of you going to. So your job is more like a batch processing to to to to figure out annual sale of annual sales amount.
    You're going to you're going to do law. You're going to see a lot of data, Right.
    And your hope is that your data will be sequential, random, hopefully sequential.
    Yeah. Okay. For that reason, you want to put a lot of data together in a big rock block, 120 a megabyte.
    But you don't want to make it a broad, a too big a super big lie.
    So some kind of tradeoff here. So we can do the first sequential read, Right.
    And where you allocate a space. That's a store that you're going to store, 220 a megabyte in one shot, hopefully sequential.
    And on the other hand, you have a few a metadata maintained, at least by the file system.
    Okay. Here's what I'm trying to say. I think the last point. So a hundred to the military that we actually make changes here.
    Right. Well, if this y y.
    So here's what I'm trying to say.
    DCF have a one. Occupy How many? BLOCK One bar, one number.
    Say one way. Now, this April number seven has 120 megabyte, 920 megabyte instead of there's only one part in it necessarily because block size is 128.
    If a box size is four kilobyte, how many block would you need?
    A lot of more. Thousands more, right? Yeah. And don't you need to know the location of individual small bras?
    Right. And they could be anywhere. A lot of metadata to remember, right?
    So there's a number of metadata because they only need to know the location of one area.
    So this is basically this. This. That's the intuition. Okay.
    So then we actually stop here.
    And like, like I said, the that's really like habit that that's that's today we managed to have a complete that whole SARS people agree.
    Yeah and there's one thing and today we also finished our system.
    For any file system we have ways to address.
    Oh how complex lock your loved one has is is is done right Lebanon's download and let two should be posted as soon as you see your network is.

